# HDB_Prices_EDA

This project uses the resale flat prices since 1990 published by Singapore Housing & Development Board. The dataset is available for download from data.gov.sg

The project aims to provide insights into pricing trends in the Singapore public housing market. Taking the view of a housing agent, sales performance increasing price or volume of sales. This can be done by selecting housing units with favourable features.

Several steps demonstrated using Jupyter Notebook as follows:

1. Creation of separate anaconda environment for the project - IOD_MP1
2. Data munging and cleaning, including:

    * Combining multiple .csv files using glob library
    * Importing and Concatenating the data into pandas dataframe
    * Drop the column 'remaining_lease' with a lot of null values
    * Standardise strings in categorical features 'flat_type', including capitalisation of string

3. Feature engineering 

    * Feature 'Region' generated by mapping the towns into 5 main region categories in Singapore, i.e. North-east, East, West, Central, North\
    Towns are mapped based on categorisation provided in https://www.citypopulation.de/en/singapore/cities/, using pandas read_html function to extract the table in the webpage.
    
    * Feature 'price_per_sqm' is created by computing 'resale_price'/ 'floor_area_sqm'
    * Feature 'year' is created by extracting year string from 'month' to analyse dataset by year
    * Feature 'storey_range' needs to be converted and parsed into numerical features. This is done by splitting the range into 'min_storey' and 'max_storey'
    * Further, as 'storey_range' contains overlapping ranges, we re-group the data into wider range of storeys by using pandas .cut and store the new unique range values in columne 'storey'
    * Feature 'lease_commmence_date' is used to engineer a 'return' measure and 'years_own'\
    In calculating the return, assume the 'initial_price' bought to be the average resale price in the year of lease commencement


4. Data visualisation 

    * Using seaborn's boxplot to observe the distribution of prices by flat_model\
    Remove outlier categories with higher price distributions, e.g. premium flat types
    * Using matplotlib, plot ECDF plot of price_per_sqm distribution across 3 different time period (1990s, 2000s, 2010s). This shows us the changes in distribution of prices across time.
    * Using seaborn's scatterplot visualise the price_per_sqm and no of units sold across 3 different time period (1990s, 2000s, 2010s)
    * Using matplotlib, plot a custom plot of area plot for volume and line plot for price of resale units by region to show price and volume trends across time, as well as the trade-off impact if any
    * Using seaborn heatmap visualise the average return % for units owned for no of 'years_own' across years

**Conclusion**

With clear understanding of limitations of the dataset, EDA provides limited but useful understanding of relevant trends in the housing market. Details on the business insights derived for each visualisation can be found in the ppt file deposited.

The project has been presented in completion of data science course taken with the Institute of Data
